We've used set state, or sorry,
useState, and we've used useEffect.
One of the cool thing that you can do
with React is you can make your own hook.
Now why would you wanna
make your own hook?
It's a dumb question, you don't,
I'm just kidding sometimes you do,
but not frequently.
Well, I guess that's kinda debatable
depending on who you talk to.
There's some people that say,
I use everything as a custom hook and
I use no useState in my industry.
People are wrong don't listen to them.
Basically, if you find yourself doing
like a song and dance of several hooks
in a row, and that's also generally
applicable to another component,
that's a good candidate for
something to be a custom hook, right?
So a good example of that is like,
maybe you have, this is a good example.
Someone gives you a city and
then you use that city to call and
get like a zip code, right?
You can see that kinda workflow happening.
If you do that a lot, you could get
like a use zip code hook that you
just provided a location and
it gives you back a zip code, right?
So that would be a really good candidate
of like a workflow that would work really
well into a custom hook.
In our particular case, we're gonna
make one called useBreedList because we
can get a breed list back from our API
if we give it an animal, all right?
If we're doing a pet adoption app
that can be useful in several places.
So instead of putting all that logic here,
we're gonna make our own
hook called useBreedList.
So go ahead with me create a new
file called useBreedList.js.
And we're going to import useState,
useEffect from React.
Let me make a local cache.
And we're gonna make this, so
that if you go from you call,
breed lists with dog and it goes and
gets you poodle and Chihuahua and
the called cat and
it gets you back, Tabby and Siamese.
If you go back to dog, we wanna make it so
that it doesn't go back to the API
it just gives you the local cache.
Now we're just gonna do an object here,
but
you should use something like
local storage for this, right?
We're just simplifying everything by
just making it an object here, Okay?
Export default function,
UseBreedList, Okay?
And then here we're gonna
say const breedList and
setBreedList=, you may
have guessed useState,
you'd be correct, empty array.
And const status, we're not gonna be using
the status in this particular course or
anything like that.
But I'm just gonna show you how I would
have built this if I was gonna use this in
several places.
What's useful about this is now we can
check in our components, is this pending,
is there an error?
Is this working?
It'll be like a status of what
the breedList is in at the moment.
So then you could show like loading
spinners and stuff like that.
So, then this is gonna be a useState
we're going make it like an enumerated
type, right?
An enumerated type is basically like this,
can only be like a subset of types.
This can either be either unloaded,
or pending, or loaded, that's it.
So it's gonna start out in
an unloaded state, Okay?
First thing here we're gonna use effect,
this is gonna be a function and
we're gonna say if no animal,
Then setBreedList to be empty.
So if someone asks for
a BreedList for empty string animal,
you just give them,
there are no breeds for no animals.
You get nothing.
Else if local cache has an entry for
this, Then give them that,
Else, request breedList, With,
Okay?
We're just gonna put this
inside of our effect here.
So we're gonna make an async
function requestBreedList
Takes no parameters.
First thing if you call setBrainList,
we're gonna send
the breedList to be empty.
So for example, if I go from dog to cat,
immediately I wanna stop providing breeds,
because now I have no breeds that
are gonna be accurate, right?
Basically, you don't wanna get into
like some sort of like halfway
state where you have dogs
that are Siamese, right?
And that's the point here.
SetStatus, to be loading,
And then we're gonna say, const res=await.
I need to make the fetch first,
res=await, res await fetch.
http://pets-v2.dev-api's.com/breeds
and animal=animal.
Again, remember those are backticks
because this is a template string,
pets-v2.dev-apis.com/breeds.
Cool, that'll get there.
const json = await res.json.
So we're gonna store this in our local
cache = json.breeds or nothing.
So if you go out and try and
get horses for example.
And the API doesn't support that.
It's just gonna give you
back an empty ArrayList.
That's what the or does here.
SetBreedList, LocalCache animal.
This is a habit of mine by the word
animal come from that just comes from,
sorry up here useBreedList here line five,
you need to take in a parameter
of animal that's important.
That's like, how are we giving
like empty strings to useState.
This is that string coming in from
wherever the hook has been called.
Cool.
>> Why 23 and the API call are we
doing /breeds and that /pets breeds=?
Great.
>> So this is just the name of
the API that I made for you.
>> In search-
>> So-
>> Columns of /pets.
>> Right, which is a different API.
>> Okay got you.
>> Yeah.
Two different API's.
Good question.
But prove my point here.
You call with dog you'll get all
these very different APIs back,
if you call with pets,
you will get specific pets, so
this will give you all dogs.
Good question.
Okay, Someone might ask me,
hey, why are you using the localCache
instead of just doing json.breeds
kinda just force a habit I suppose.
I mean, they end up being the same thing
cuz you're setting them to be equivalent
to each other.
And then setStatus, I guess,
technically the cells a race condition.
But as you requested two
animals in quick succession,
one where the first request
was slower than the second,
probably around the second closer
than the first, they would come back.
I don't know, anyway, you there's
probably a race condition there.
I don't know some figured out and
fix it for me.
So what open source software is for?
Like halfway kidding on that.
[LAUGH] Okay, so now we have this
great little useEffect function.
This one is gonna say, hey,
you have dependencies you haven't
declared yet, which is true, we do.
We're going to set them here and
we're dependent on animal,
Okay?
So basically what's
cool about this now is,
this is now keeping track of
like whenever animal changes,
we request it, we don't have to
like handle any of that logic
ourselves React by giving animal here,
now this is React promises.
React is gonna know okay, animal change
time I gotta recall this one, right?
And it keeps track of all
those dependencies for you.
I'm gonna say return
breedList and status.
So I'm just adhering to their
normal array type things.
Since all hooks use this I just kind
of keep with the tradition, but
that's why I'm doing that.
There's no reason you
have to do it this way.
It's just the way that
I chose to do it here.
And the other thing I'll tell you here, we
are providing the status back to the user
so they can see that it's either loading,
loaded or unloaded.
We're not gonna use it throughout
the rest of the course but
it's just like a good idea, right?
Okay.
And now, this breed will be available
to us whenever we use this hook.